---title: Is prioritising digital the key to Not-For-Profit success?keywords: "non-profit, startup, profit, business development"description: "As organisations continue to find new ways to grow, we are seeing those that invest in digital technologies move ahead of others who are yet to prioritise its importance."tags:    - non-profit    - maccategories:    - digitalauthor: ashimages:    preview: "2014-01-08-is-prioritising-digital-the-key-to-not-for-profit-success/small.jpg"    main: "2014-01-08-is-prioritising-digital-the-key-to-not-for-profit-success/large.jpg"excerpt: "As organisations continue to find new ways to grow, we are seeing those that invest in digital technologies move ahead of others who are yet to prioritise its importance." ---We all know the old saying, *‘What you don’t know can’t hurt you’*. In the digital landscape, this couldn’t be further from the truth. When we’re talking about not-for-profit organisations, not knowing enough about digital is going to hurt.At this stage, exactly how much hurt, we don’t know. But what we do know is this: the next generation of donors and supporters are here and in Australia alone there are over 600,000 registered not-for-profits.This generation has a heart for social impact. A big one, meaning their passions are wide and varied.We are the most in-debt Australian population ever and are addicted to the magical thing we call the internet. We live in a world where news is ignored if the headline does not capture our interest in a split second. With this in mind, how can not-for-profits build their donor base, increase their revenue, continue to raise awareness, build their community AND stay relevant?One word: **Digital**.I’m lucky enough to work with [Squareweave](http://www.squareweave.com.au), an agency that exists to make the world a better place. We do this by providing clients with the digital tools they need to make a greater social impact. The team simply works with [clients](http://www.squareweave.com.au/work) that they LOVE. These clients are embracing digital and they are smashing it. Why? Because they aren’t afraid to invest in something ‘scary’, while others fall behind.I have spent my fair share of time in the not-for-profit sector, specifically focusing on digital projects, and have seen the common weakness: leaders who do not acknowledge the need to invest in digital technologies, instead treating digital like a luxury, not a necessity.Those that are using digital solutions are solving problems by understanding how their target audience engages and communicates online.Through websites and apps, these not-for-profits are growing their communities, accessing more donors and supporters in real-time, and have (thankfully) reduced their snail mail.Marketing costs are lower because these organisations can have a real conversation with their community online. All that’s left is learning how to be smarter about the internet’s potential for free marketing.Those who do it well have websites that last years longer than those who have to revisit, tweak or rebuild every six months because the project wasn’t given the attention and funding it deserved to begin with.By no means is this a suggestion that not-for-profits drop half of next year’s budget on a crazy new app. All I hope is that these organisations take more time to think about how they can best increase their impact. More often than not, I think they’ll find the solution is digital. 